# Usability V.S. User Experience

## 2 main points

- User-centered
- Iteration

## 3 Principles of User-Centered Design

- Early focus on users
- Empirical measurement 以经验（或实验）为依据
- Iterative design

## 4 Stages of Design (Life Cycle)

- Discover Requirements
- Designing Alternatives(sketches)
- Prototyping
- Evaluating

## 5 Methods of discovering

- Interview
- Observation (laboratory, in the wild)
- Reviews
- Questionnaire
- Focus group(several people)

## Usability (Objective)

- Effectiveness: how good at doing what it supposed to do
- Efficiency: how few steps needed
- Safety: how good at avoiding errors
- Utility: how appropriate are the functions user want to achieve
- Learnability: how quickly user can figure out what to do
- Memorability: how easy it sis to remember how to use

## Usable System

- Meet users' goal
- Work in context of use
- Gather 3 kinds of data(who, what, how)

## Prototyping in HCI

- Representation emphasizing some aspects and de-emphasizing others
- Simulation
- `One manifestation of a design that allows stakeholders to interact with it and explore its suitability.`

# Personas V.S. Scenario

## Process

1. Figure out what you want to learn about customer (Goals? What are they worried about? Needs? Expectation?)  
2. Talk to customer, for real  
3. Draw on what you have. CRMdata, analytics, …  
4. Create a draft  
5. Transltate to professionally illustrated personas  

## Discovering requirements

- Who is target user?
- What are defining characteristics?
- How can we represent?

***Persona***: Fictitious character, Type of user, based on user data  
***Scenario***: Context of user, example of achieving a user goal, simple, natural, personal 

# Design Principles

- Visibility
- Feedback
- Affordance
- Mapping
- Consistency
- Constraints


# Evaluation

- Analytic Evaluation
    - Heuristic Evaluation (Heuristic: "rule of thumb", aid to discover)

"10 usability heuristics" (Nielsen's heuristics for usability)  

1. Visibility of system status  
2. Match between system and real world  
3. User control and freedom
4. Consistency and standards
5. Error prevention
6. Recognition rather than recall
7. Flexibility and efficiency of use
8. Aesthetic and minimalist design
9. Help user recognize, diagnose and recover from errors
10. Help and documentation

"How to carry out Heuristic Evaluation?"

1. Train some experts
2. Get individual experts to use heuristics to find problems
3. Permit experts to generate new heuristics 
4. Get individual experts to prioritise problems on scale of 0 to 4
5. Collate reports to a single evaluation

- Empirical Evaluation
    - Usability test (lab study/use test)

